# Magic API

## Migrations
Everything is already setted up for migrations and future updates of database structure, here we use [SQLAlchemy](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/) for database connection and CRUD and so the [Alembic](https://alembic.sqlalchemy.org/en/latest/tutorial.html) for do the migrations.
### First steps

To add or alter a database table you must use the alembic library, as SQLAlchemy recommends.

### Setting the migrations

- In the first instance we must set the alembic.ini file at the root folder as the alembic.example.ini
- Alter the sqlalchemy.url variable as the example
- Create a new migration using the following
```sh
alembic revision -m "create user table"
```
- At ./database/migrations/versions we'll see a new created file, this file contains the requirments to make a migration, as the bellow
```python
"""create user table

Revision ID: d36f91b5f863
Revises: 
Create Date: 2022-05-18 18:39:35.494974

"""
import sqlalchemy as sa
from alembic import op

# revision identifiers, used by Alembic.
revision = 'd36f91b5f863'
down_revision = None
branch_labels = None
depends_on = None


def upgrade():
    op.create_table('users',
        pass
    )


def downgrade():
    pass
```
there are some of the methods used to create or drop a specific table or column.
<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Method</th>
    <th>Attribute</th>
    <th>Reverse</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>os.create_table('table_name',...)</td>
    <td>Create a new table with the sa.Column() columns</td>
    <td>os.drop_table('table_name')</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>os.add_column('table_name', ...)</td>
    <td>Create new column on the given table</td>
    <td>os.drop_column('table_name','column_name')</td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>


### Migrating
```sh
alembic upgrade head
```

### Relative Migration Identifiers
```sh
alembic upgrade +2
```
### Downgrading
```sh
alembic downgrade base
```

### Relative Downgrade Identifiers
```sh
alembic downgrade -1
```

### Autogenerated migrations

The alembic auto-generated migrations are already set up too, we just need to create a new Model at the database/models folder following the existing ones. After creating the model, add it to `database.models.__init__` just as the existing ones and then run
```sh
alembic revision --autogenerate -m "create cards table"
```
after that the alembic will auto generate the migrations, so we must run the [migrating command](#Migrating)

## Schemas

### pydantic Models

The Schemas used to make validations of inputs is the one recommended by FastAPI documentation, so you must follow the [documentation](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/tutorial/body-multiple-params/) is pretty specified there with basic and advanced level. If you rather, there's the [pydantic main documentation](https://pydantic-docs.helpmanual.io) too.

### Validations

The validations are set up at the database.schemas.schema folders, they are methods of the respective Schemas objects.
To implement another validator, please, follow the existents at the code, or if you rather contact me at the issues section.

